04. A List Apart

Lessons Learned
1. David Kadavy
I signed up for David Kadavy's free newsletter, Design Pitfalls (http://designforhackers.com/blog/design-pitfalls-a-new-free-email-course-to-learn-design/).
I have only been through 3 lessons; the newsletter is aimed towards avoiding beginner design mistakes by limiting your design choices. As a designer with a blank slate, you have infinite options. You can choose from so many different fonts, different font-sizes, colors, etc. This can be overwhelming for a beginner, and crappy designs with a mess of colors and fonts usually come out of it.

Although it might sound counter-intuitive, having constraints on your choices encourages creativity. By limiting what you can use in your design palette, you're forced to come up with creative solutions to overcome design obstacles. If you can only use 1 font family, how can you clearly differentiate an <h1> from an <h2> tag? Maybe you can play with the font-size, the padding, the font-weight (things you would have never considered if you could've used more fonts)? And what if you can only use 2 different colors on your website? Can you still make a vibrant website? These questions are a great exercise in learning to do a lot with the basics you're given.

2. Skeleton.css (http://getskeleton.com)
I used Skeleton.css, which is described as "dead simple, responsive boilerplate." It is only 400 lines of CSS and gives you a 12 column responsive grid. Designing and developing while thinking in terms of a grid definitely helped me out in the structure of my html and css code. Instead of thinking about how many pixels to add to elements to get them where I want them to be, I can think about which columns the content should take up.

Thinking in terms of the grid might also limit some of your options when designing. But like David Kadavy's newsletter suggested, having something that limits your options doesn't necessarily limit your creativity. I'm jumping on the grid bandwagon and embracing this challenge.

Improvements
Although skeleton.css is very lightweight, it does come with some additional stylings other than the 12 column responsive grid. It has its' own styling for buttons and forms which I think look amazing, but these styles go unused. I wonder if it's better to keep a version of skeleton.css that is bare of all unnecessary styles, even though the savings from deleting these styles may be minimal.

I also wanted to mention Sketch. Previously, I had been using Affinity Designer for my wireframes. It's a great vector drawing tool which got the job done. It left some features to be desired though. There is no grid that comes built in with Affinity Designer, so I had to import an image of a 12 column grid into my wireframe and build on top of that. The text that you type into Affinity Designer also doesn't wrap; whenever I was typing copy for my wireframe, I had to do all the line breaks manually to make sure the text content didn't overflow. Sketch has this built in, and I finally decided to give their 30 day trial a shot.

I didn't think Sketch would offer me a lot other than a built-in grid and text wrapping, but I was pleasantly surprised.

There's a companion app for the iPhone called "Sketch Mirror." It connects to your Sketch desktop application through Wifi (or usb) and you can see your wireframe right on your mobile device...in real time! Before this, I would only get a sense of how the website would look on my phone after having written most of the code already.

Sketch also supports third-party plugins, which I find amazing. Giving the ability for developers to develop apps and tools for your platform (usually) creates a better ecosystem (like the App store). I only spent a couple of minutes looking through the plugins and I was already impressed.

There is a plugin that will put "lorem ipsum" placeholder text...nothing too impressive, right? But it can also generate random male/female names, and even placeholder images! This is definitely better than having a gray circle as my image placeholder.

And another amazing plugin I found gives you a stylesheet of your wireframe. When I first started playing with Sketch, I was hand-writing all of my margin and padding values, font-sizes, element colors, etc. for reference for when I was going to code the CSS for the website. This plugin did all that for me!

I've only played with Sketch for a couple of hours after I finished this project, but I am definitely excited to see what else Sketch has to offer. I don't think that the tools a designer uses will make their designs BETTER, but I can definitely see Sketch improving my workflow and making designing EASIER.

Inspiration
www.alistapart.com
